Polycode lua experiment -- a game called "Unplayable Asteroids". Self-explanatory. You will probably have a lot of trouble getting this to run, but it is designed as a package for the Polycode Player.

== Licensing ==

This is a working source code repository, so NOTHING IN THE REPOSITORY SHOULD BE TAKEN AS GRANTING A LICENSE TO REUSE THE CODE OR SOFTWARE. There is no license information in the repository itself. Rather, here is the licensing information:

The rock images are from a stock photography site, which— I discovered only after finishing the game— explicitly had a "you may not use these images in a video game" clause in their TOS (??), which is part of why I have never released this. You cannot use the images, I don't own the copyright on them, etc.

Other than the images, the contents of this repository are available under the Creative Commons [[http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc/3.0/|Attribution-NonCommercial 3.0 Unported]] license. This means you are free to use the code and resources from this game for any noncommercial purpose as long as you clearly credit the original creator (Andi McClure). You may alternately, if you choose, use the content under the terms of the [[http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-2.0.html|GNU GPL 2.0]], any later version of the GNU GPL, or the Creative Commons [[http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/3.0/|Attribution-ShareAlike 3.0 Unported]] license. These licenses essentially say you may use the code and resources from this game for any purpose including commercial ones as long as you clearly credit the original creator and also make your source code available. This program also incorporates a number of open source libraries with their own license terms, as described [[http://vote.grumpybumpers.com/j/p/polycode-unnecesary.txt|here]].

Also please note: Nothing here should be taken as granting permission to use the Run Hello name or logo.

If you would like to use something here under different terms, or have any questions, you can contact andi DOT m DOT mcclure AT gmail DOT com.