Table of contents:

<<toc>>

== Introduction ==

This is the complete source code to an **unfinished** game named "Dot". Included are the Mac, Windows, and Linux versions, as well as iPhone and Android versions which may or may not work. If you just want to try the program, see [[http://msm.runhello.com/?p=465|here]].

The project is hosted here on Bitbucket, so you can download the source yourself by doing one of the following:

* {{{hg clone https://bitbucket.org/runhello/dot}}}
* {{{svn co https://bitbucket.org/runhello/dot/trunk}}}
* Click the "get source" button on the upper right of this page.

== Licensing ==

This is a working source code repository, so NOTHING IN THE REPOSITORY SHOULD BE TAKEN AS GRANTING A LICENSE TO REUSE THE CODE OR SOFTWARE. There is no license information in the repository itself. Rather, here is the licensing information:

The contents of this repository are available under the Creative Commons [[http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc/3.0/|Attribution-NonCommercial 3.0 Unported]] license. This means you are free to use the code and resources from this game for any noncommercial purpose as long as you clearly credit the original creators. You may alternately, if you choose, use the content under the terms of the [[http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-2.0.html|GNU GPL 2.0]], any later version of the GNU GPL, or the Creative Commons [[http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/3.0/|Attribution-ShareAlike 3.0 Unported]] license. These licenses essentially say you may use the code and resources from this game for any purpose including commercial ones as long as you clearly credit the original creators and also make your source code available.

For purposes of any of these licenses, the creators to credit can be found in the desktop/readme/Readme.html and desktop/readme/help/license.txt files, but the program was created by Andi McClure. The program also incorporates a number of open source libraries with their own license terms, such as Scott Lembke's "Chipmunk" physics library; please see the READMEs.

Also please note: Nothing here should be taken as granting permission to use the Run Hello name or logo.

If you would like to use something here under different terms, or have any questions, you can contact andi DOT m DOT mcclure AT gmail DOT com. Also, you should be aware that a separate project called [[https://bitbucket.org/runhello/jumpcore|Jumpcore]] contains most of the source code from this program, in an improved form and under more lenient licensing terms.

== How to use ==

* To compile for Mac, open desktop/Jumpcore.xcodeproj in XCode.
* To compile for Windows, enter the "desktop/win" directory and type "make". Note: You will have to configure MinGW and MSYS first.
* To compile for Linux, enter the "desktop/lin" directory and type "make".
* To compile for iPhone, enter the "iphone" directory and open the xcodeproj in XCode.
* To compile for Android, try following the [[https://bitbucket.org/runhello/jumpcore/wiki/How_to_Build#!building-for-android|Android build instructions]] for the Jumpcore framework.