Hi, my name is Andi McClure and this is a list of all projects I have hosted here on BitBucket. Most of them are games. You can find my personal website [[http://runhello.com/|here]].

This list is split into sections, based on what tool I used. For each section there is a basic "engine" project, which is usually based on a permissive attribution-only license and designed for others to build projects on top of; and a series of more specific projects based on that engine, which are usually based on a sharealike or noncommercial copyleft license. Regardless of project, make sure to check the tags for release versions.

The tool I am currently using for projects is LÖVR (see below) so those will be the most recently posted code, whereas some of the projects on this page are over ten years old.

Table of contents:

<<toc>>

== Websites ==

* [[https://mcclure.github.io/emu-coop/|emu-coop]]: A multiplayer hack for 1-player Super Nintendo games
* [[https://mcclure.github.io/qgcon-2018/|qgcon-2018]]: Resources and a video from a talk I gave on making small programming languages.
* [[https://mcclure.github.io/mermaid-lovr/|mermaid-lovr]]: A set of resources for the LÖVR game engine.

== LÖVR projects ==

[[http://lovr.org|LÖVR]] is an open source VR engine originally created by Bjorn Swenson. I've been using it since 2018. See [[https://mcclure.github.io/mermaid-lovr/|my LÖVR resources page here]].

* [[https://github.com/mcclure/lovr|Lovr]]: My fork of LÖVR on GitHub (no important differences from the main repo).
* [[https://github.com/mcclure/lovr-oculus-mobile|lovr-oculus-mobile]]: The main site for oculus mobile support using LÖVR (maintained by me).
* [[https://github.com/mcclure/lodr|lodr]]: A hot code reloading app for LÖVR. 
* [[http://github.com/bjornbytes/lovr-ent|lovr-ent]]: A "starting point project", sample code containing all the Lua helper code I include in all my LÖVR projects. Some of these are usable in non-LÖVR Lua engines.

== Emily language ==

[[https://emilylang.org|Emily]] was an experimental programming language I designed and worked on between about 2014 and 2017.

=== Interpreter ===

* [[https://bitbucket.org/runhello/emily|emily]]: In-progress interpreter for a programming language I designed.
* [[https://bitbucket.org/runhello/test-emily-game|test-emily-game]]: Experimental branch of emily (0.3b development is effectively occurring here)
* [[https://bitbucket.org/runhello/emily-python|emily-python]] aka Emily2: Experimental next-generation (post 0.3) prototype of Emily. Not yet documented.


=== Other materials ===

* [[https://bitbucket.org/runhello/llvm-practice|llvm-practice]]: Code for my "No Compiler" blog posts, written to learn about compilers.
* [[https://bitbucket.org/runhello/makepy|make.py]]: Reimplementation of the `make` tool in Python, intended for use as Emily build tool
* [[https://bitbucket.org/runhello/ppx_const|ppx_const]]: A ppx syntax extension for the OCaml programming language. Adds a compile-time "if" statement.
* [[https://bitbucket.org/runhello/emily-objc|emily-objc]]: Abandoned first-prototype version of Emily. Suggest just ignoring.

== Jumpcore projects ==

Jumpcore is my homegrown game engine. I started developing it in 2008 and use it for all my C++ game projects.

=== Engine ===

* [[https://bitbucket.org/runhello/jumpcore|jumpcore]]: a get-started kit for portable C++ games

=== Games ===

* [[https://bitbucket.org/runhello/jumpman_public|jumpman_public]] aka Jumpman
* [[https://bitbucket.org/runhello/drumcircle|drumcircle]]
* [[https://bitbucket.org/runhello/body|body]] aka You Don't Fit
* [[https://bitbucket.org/runhello/footsteps|footsteps]] aka My Own Footsteps
* [[https://bitbucket.org/runhello/pong|pong]] aka pongpongpongpongpongpongpongpong
* [[https://bitbucket.org/runhello/splinecraft|splinecraft]]
* [[https://bitbucket.org/runhello/ocean|ocean]] aka You Will Die Alone At Sea
* [[https://bitbucket.org/runhello/blit/wiki/Home|blit]] aka Scrunch

=== Unfinished ===

* [[https://bitbucket.org/runhello/impression|impression]]
* [[https://bitbucket.org/runhello/dot|dot]]
* [[https://bitbucket.org/runhello/rtarot|rtarot]] aka Reverse Tarot
* [[https://bitbucket.org/runhello/jpeg|jpeg]]: Realtime JPG damager
* [[https://bitbucket.org/runhello/bodyhack|bodyhack]]
* [[https://bitbucket.org/runhello/nomadtest|nomadtest]]
* [[https://bitbucket.org/runhello/geodesic/wiki/Home|geodesic]] aka Icosa

== Polyconsole projects ==

Polycode is a game engine originally developed by Ivan Safrin. I used it between about 2011 and 2014.

=== Engine ===

* [[https://bitbucket.org/runhello/polycode|polycode]]: My fork of Ivan Safrin's [[http://polycode.org/|Polycode]] game engine 
* [[https://bitbucket.org/runhello/polyconsole|polyconsole]]: My Polycode "template project", a replacement for the Polycode Player which adds additional capabilities

=== Games ===

* [[https://bitbucket.org/runhello/universe|universe]] aka Markov Space
* [[https://bitbucket.org/runhello/rad|rad]] aka Xaxxaxoxax
* [[https://bitbucket.org/runhello/nauts|nauts]] aka Luanauts
* [[https://bitbucket.org/runhello/breathe|breathe]]
* [[https://bitbucket.org/runhello/molyjam|molyjam]] aka The Shadowland Prophesy
* [[https://bitbucket.org/runhello/evo|evo]] aka The World Hates You
* [[https://bitbucket.org/runhello/fps|fps]] aka 7DRL
* [[https://bitbucket.org/runhello/brainfarm|brainfarm]]
* [[https://bitbucket.org/runhello/voxcut_public|voxcut_public]] which contains "pxswap" and "cs/1"
* [[https://bitbucket.org/runhello/whoop|whoop]] aka Devil's Chord
* [[https://bitbucket.org/runhello/dontbreathe|dontbreathe]] aka Sun Sets
* [[https://bitbucket.org/runhello/launcher|launcher]] aka Sweet Nothings
* [[https://bitbucket.org/runhello/fall|fall]]
* [[https://bitbucket.org/runhello/iso|iso]] aka Responsibilities
* [[https://bitbucket.org/runhello/lesbian|lesbian]] aka Lesbian Spider Mars Queens
* [[https://bitbucket.org/runhello/portaudio_test|portaudio_test]]
* [[https://bitbucket.org/runhello/geogen|geogen]] (Twitter avatar generator)
* [[https://bitbucket.org/runhello/dating|dating]] aka He Never Showed Up
* [[https://bitbucket.org/runhello/rainbow|rainbow]] aka HOWLER?
* [[https://bitbucket.org/runhello/hcyet|hcyet]] aka How Can You Even Tell
* [[https://bitbucket.org/runhello/fps2|fps2]] aka Four Shades of Gray
* [[https://bitbucket.org/runhello/cymbal|cymbal]] aka Super Fungus Attack

=== Unfinished ===

* [[https://bitbucket.org/runhello/template|template]] Pre-Polyconsole Polycode project. Yes, the game is named "template".
* [[https://bitbucket.org/runhello/luatest|luatest]] aka Unplayable Asteroids. Pre-Polyconsole.
* [[https://bitbucket.org/runhello/hello|hello]] BASIC interpreter and command line
* [[https://bitbucket.org/runhello/flipper|flipper]]
* [[https://bitbucket.org/runhello/adp|adp]] aka A Dark Place
* [[https://bitbucket.org/runhello/luatracker|diary]] (very little is here)
* [[https://bitbucket.org/runhello/luatracker|luatracker]] (very little is here)
* [[https://bitbucket.org/runhello/nervous|nervous]] aka The Nervous System
* [[https://bitbucket.org/runhello/colors|colors]] aka Trilemma
* [[https://bitbucket.org/runhello/sia|sia]] aka Death By Chocolate aka Stars
* [[https://bitbucket.org/runhello/sharecart|sharecart]] aka Player Piano
* [[https://bitbucket.org/runhello/turing|turing]] aka Tau
* [[https://bitbucket.org/runhello/triangle|triangle]] aka L?L?L?L
* [[https://bitbucket.org/runhello/rps|rps]] aka Very Fast Rock Paper Scissors
* [[https://bitbucket.org/runhello/compass|compass]]

== Ufo projects ==

Ufo is a bundle of LuaJIT with some support libraries. I do not yet have a "trunk" repository for it.

=== Games ===

* [[https://bitbucket.org/runhello/ufo|ufo]] aka BECOME A GREAT ARTIST IN JUST 10 SECONDS

=== Unfinished ===

* [[https://bitbucket.org/runhello/nanogunk|nanogunk]]
* [[https://bitbucket.org/runhello/twotris|twotris]]
* [[https://bitbucket.org/runhello/bodyhack-test|bodyhack-test]]

== Twine projects ==

[[http://twinery.org/|Twine]] is an open source tool for creating interactive fiction in HTML. I used it for a few projects around 2014.

=== Engine ===

* [[https://bitbucket.org/runhello/twine|twine]]: My fork of the popular Twine IF tool (contains custom templates, etc)
* [[https://bitbucket.org/runhello/twinetools|twinetools]]: A small macro collection
* [[https://bitbucket.org/runhello/spool|spool]]: Tools for Twine games with online multiplayer
* [[https://bitbucket.org/runhello/spool-heroku|spool-heroku]]: Heroku port of Spool

=== Games ===

* [[https://bitbucket.org/runhello/athena|athena]] aka Naked Shades
* [[https://bitbucket.org/runhello/localtwine|localtwine]] contains my other Twine games

== Misc games ==

=== Dryad.technology ===

* [[https://bitbucket.org/runhello/dryad-artifact|dryad-artifact]]: Combined repo for [[http://dryad.technology|dryad.technology]] Javascript experiments

=== Unfinished ===

* [[https://bitbucket.org/runhello/daynight|daynight]] aka Day and Night
* [[https://bitbucket.org/runhello/witch|witch]] aka Organ Solo
* [[https://bitbucket.org/runhello/daynight|nim-practice]] aka Time Problems

== Misc projects ==

* [[https://bitbucket.org/runhello/exacto|exacto]]: Manual stencyl project editor
* [[https://bitbucket.org/runhello/whiteboard|whiteboard]]: A Google AppEngine collaborative pixel art app
* [[https://bitbucket.org/runhello/badpng|badpng]]: Artistically buggy png encoder
* [[https://bitbucket.org/runhello/votescript|votescript]]: CGI scripts that can be used to run an online ranked-voting poll
* [[https://bitbucket.org/runhello/pseudogbs_au|pseudogbs_au]]: An approximation of the GBS ("Game Boy Sound System") as a set of Mac OS X AudioUnits.
* [[https://bitbucket.org/runhello/unitynativepluginexample|unitynativepluginexample]]: A Unity sample project which incorporates C++ code and uses CMake to build it.
* [[https://github.com/mcclure/dts2nim|dts2nim]]: A tool that converts TypeScript type definition files into a format that can be used by the Nim programming language. Can be used to call TypeScript code from Nim. May not work with most recent TypeScript.
* [[https://github.com/mcclure/emu-coop/|emu-coop]]: A multiplayer hack for 1-player Super Nintendo games (project page, see [[https://mcclure.github.io/emu-coop/|main site]] here)
* [[https://github.com/mcclure/snes9x-coop/|snes9x-coop]]: A build of snes9x-rr primed to run emu-coop (see [[https://mcclure.github.io/emu-coop/|main site]] here)
* [[https://bitbucket.org/runhello/namespace.lua|namespace.lua]]: A Lua library which adds a namespace feature to Lua. For Lua 5.1/LuaJIT.

== Ports and forks ==

=== Games ===

* [[https://bitbucket.org/runhello/port_epacse|port_epacse]] aka epacse
* [[https://bitbucket.org/runhello/port_sword|port_sword]] aka Sword In Hand
* [[https://bitbucket.org/runhello/port_rive|port_rive]] aka Rive Gauche

=== Open source project forks ===

* [[https://bitbucket.org/runhello/sproxel|sproxel]]: A voxel editor
* [[https://bitbucket.org/runhello/hg-git|hg-git]]: Mercurial/git bridge (outdated)